♪ ♪
(birds chirping)
Winters:
It was more than three years
since Lewis Nixon and I
decided to join
the Paratroops,
and more than a year since
we'd first gone to war,
not knowing what
would happen to us,
how long
we'd be fighting,
where we'd end up.
I certainly didn't
expect to find myself
in a place like this.
Nixon:
I thought it
might be you.
'Morning.
I heard reports about
a red-headed Eskimo.
Thought I'd
check it out.
Come to join me
for a morning swim?
(laughing)
Yeah.
You know me
so well.
Here,
it's from Zielinski.
Oh, great.
What is that?
Ran into the regimental
photographer.
Said he had
all these photographs
of the 506th
going all the way
back to Toccoa.
I traded 'em for
a couple of lugers.
That's a bargain.
(laughs)
What do you think
you'll do after this?
Get some breakfast.
No, after, after.
Well, it's funny
you should mention it
'cause I had a meeting
with Colonel Sink.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, discussed
the possibility
of staying.
In the army?
Yeah.
Yeah, as a career.
What'd you say?
I said I'd
think about it.
What do you think
about New Jersey?
New Jersey?
There's a company
in Nixon, New Jersey.
It's called
"Nixon Nitration Works".
Oh, sounds picturesque.
Yeah, well, oddly enough,
I know the owners.
Probably gonna expect me
to make something of myself.
I thought maybe
I'd drag you with me.
Are you offering
me a job?
We'll see how you do
in your interview,
but, you know, a man
of your qualifications,
I think we can probably
scrape something up
commensurate with
your current salary level.
Yeah, I'll think
about it.
Yeah, I really
appreciate it.
Yeah, just
think about it.
Yeah.
Winters:
Job offers...
hard to fathom.
And the war
wasn't even over.
I was still
getting used to hot showers
and morning swims.
We'd entered Bavaria
in early May
with the hopes
of capturing Berchtesgaden.
This famous town,
high in the Alps,
was the Nazi Party's
symbolic home,
and all the heads
of the Third Reich
had houses there.
Although Hitler
was dead,
he had apparently
ordered the SS to make it
their last stand
from which to mount
a guerrilla resistance
against the Allied advance.
The first step was
blocking the roads.
When are we expecting
the engineers to arrive?
Half an hour ago.
We're stuck here
until they do, Nix.
Well, if you're the SS,
you're not gonna let us
waltz into Hitler's house.
Probably throw
a few rocks at us yourself.
If you're looking for someone
to find another way
up that mountain,
"Easy Company"
is ready and willing.
Duly noted.
I already recommended you
to Colonel Sink.
Terrific, let's go find out
where Hitler lived.
Ron, we're not sure
what's up there.
The colonel doesn't want us
taking any unnecessary risks.
So, the French
are gonna beat us
to the Eagle's Nest.
Colonel Sink: Kids,
I just had a conversation
with General Leclerc.
He told me
he was first into Paris
and, by God, he wanted to be
first into Berchtesgaden.
Told him I understood
his point.
Now, you fire up
Second Battalion
and outflank that
French son of a bitch.
Yes, sir.
I want "Easy Company"
in the lead.
Have the men assemble
down on the Autobahn.
Yes, sir.
Eerie.
Not even
any natives.
That's 'cause this
is the one town
you can't deny
being a true Nazi.
What do you mean?
Nixon:
Well, you have to be
to live here.
Need to find some place
we can put the colonel.
How about
right there?
No, no.
Wow.
(silverware clanging)
Kitty would
love this.
How many brides
get a wedding present
from Hitler?
You wanna
take half?
I can't carry
all this.
You know, whoever
comes in here after us
is gonna take whatever
isn't nailed down.
Well, wouldn't want
that to happen.
(chuckles)
Nice.
Don't even
think about it.
Major Winters?
Sir?
More.
Er, permission to climb
the mountain, sir?
The Eagle's Nest?
What is this?
Wait one minute.
Harry, have "F" Company
put a double guard
on the hotel.
Set up roadblocks
on the west side of town.
I want battalion HQ,
seal off the north side
and prepare
for prisoners.
Sergeant Grant.
And, Harry,
nobody gets hurt, not now.
(ripping)
And "Easy"?
"Easy" will head
up the mountain
through the Obersalzburg
and take the Eagle's Nest.
Man:
Hi-ho, Silver!
(yelling)
(all cheering)
Winters: The Eagle's Nest
was a surprise birthday
present for Hitler,
built with
Nazi Party money.
A mountaintop stone retreat
8,000 feet up,
accessible
by a gold-plated elevator.
It was one
of the crown jewels
of his empire.
And the man
was afraid of heights.
(cork popping)
Here's to him.
(man laughing)
Nixon: No, God damn it,
listen.
"Hitler, Hitler"-- no.
Man:
Hitler, Himmler,
Goering, Goebbels!
(all arguing)
Hey, Adolf!
Love your Eagle's Nest.
I hope you don't mind.
We made ourselves
at home.
Love what you've done
with the place.
Hey, hey,
have a drink.
Come on.
Just so's as we can say
we saw you do it.
Listen up.
From Corps, just came in.
Effective immediately.
"All troops stand fast
on present positions."
Standing fast.
Yeah.
(chuckling)
Wanna hear it?
Mmm.
Mmm-hmm?
Ready for it?
Listen up.
German army's
surrendered.
I got a present
for you. Come on.
Is it?
Yeah.
Nixon:
What is this place?
Hermann Goering's house.
We discovered it
yesterday.
Had it on double guard
ever since.
I can vouch
for that, sir.
Oh, anxious to get
off duty, O'Keefe?
No, there's just so much
to see and do, sir.
Winters:
10,000 bottles
of the world's finest liquor,
wine, and champagne helped
"Easy Company" mark the day
the war in Europe
came to an end.
Winters:
It's all yours.
Take what you want
and have each company
take a truckload.
We're heading for Austria
in the morning,
but don't feel
you have to leave
anything here
for whoever comes next.
Austria, sir?
Happy V.E. Day.
Yeah.
V.E. Day?
Victory in Europe.
Happy V.E. Day.
Winters:
Instead of an aggressive
combat unit,
we became
an occupation force.
And no one wanted
to leave Berchtesgaden
until they saw Austria.
So, you reckon they'll make us
run up those or ski down them?
(people cheering,
calling out)
Soldier:
Hey, how are you?
Need a hand there?
Hi, hi!
He loves you!
Hey, lady,
how are you?
I think the war is over!
We'll be
comfortable here.
I wonder what
will happen to us,
to people like
you and me,
when there are finally
no more wars to occupy us.
Have all your men
collect the weapons,
deposit them at the church,
at the school,
and at the airfield.
Very well.
Please accept this
as my formal surrender,
Major.
It is better than to lay it
on the desk of a clerk.
You may keep
your sidearm, Colonel.
Male announcer:
Heroic dead of a combined
army and Marine force
mark the grim battlefield
of Okinawa,
where one of
the bloodiest engagements
of the war is being fought.
Thousands of Yanks
have been wounded...
Look sharp.
Along the Jap's
southern defense line,
the Yanks progress slowly,
facing one of
the fiercest artillery
barrages of the war.
Each small advance
is gained by sheer grit
in the face of withering fire
from a suicidal enemy
being slowly hammered
back into the hills.
The going is brutal
and our casualties are high,
but Okinawa
is the next big step
towards victory over Japan--
a victory that
can only be won by work,
war bonds,
and heroic sacrifice.
So, when are we going?
We don't have
a date yet.
Are we to tell
the men right away?
Some of them
will have enough points
to go home instead.
Not many,
if their only medal's
a Purple Heart.
I think most of us here
will have enough.
And each of us
will have to decide
what to do.
I don't know how long
we're waiting here for orders,
but I want those veterans
who are staying
and all new replacements
ready to fight.
That means
rifle ranges.
That means daily
close-order drills.
That means troop reviews.
But, above all, it means
physical training.
Get your NCOs on it.
They're gonna
love you.
What are you crouching
down for, Perco?
Think the deer's
gonna shoot back?
Leave me alone.
How about y'all
just shut up
and let Shifty
kill us some dinner?
Perconte:
Ah, what's
the matter, Bull?
You tired
of eating dried-up spuds
three times a day?
Hey, you know what,
I got an idea--
why don't we
just shoot Bull here
and feed the company
for a week?
(twig snaps)
(gun clicks)
Aw, God damn it,
Shifty.
You let him
get away.
Army oughta be glad
to be rid of you.
I wish, you know.
It seems they want me
to stay around awhile.
Are you serious?
How many points
you need?
15.
15? Jesus Christ,
I thought I had it bad.
Mmm. No Purple Hearts,
never was injured.
Man:
Company!
All:
Platoon!
Atten-tion!
Right shoulder.
Arm!
Order.
Arms!
At ease.
General Taylor is aware
that many veterans,
including
Normandy veterans,
still do not have
the 85 points required
to be discharged.
On this,
the anniversary of D-Day,
he has authorized
a lottery to send
one man home
in each company,
effective immediately.
For "Easy Company",
the winner is...
Come on, come on,
come on, come on.
Serial number
1-3-0...
6-6-2-6-6.
Sergeant
Darrell C. Powers.
Well done, Shifty.
That's how
it's done, Shifty!
Congratulations,
Shifty.
Sergeant Grant
will see to it
that 2nd platoon
takes over
at the Crossroads checkpoint,
beginning tonight
at 2200 hours.
So much for
our anniversary.
No shit.
General Taylor
has also announced that
the 101st Airborne Division
will definitely be
redeployed to the Pacific.
So, beginning tomorrow,
at 0600 hours,
we will begin
training to go to war.
(knocking)
Come in.
(door opening)
I don't mean to
interrupt you, sir.
I just wanted
to say goodbye.
You know, you was...
You was...
Well...
it's been
a long time.
You got everything
you need?
Yes, sir.
I gathered up my loot.
Pistols mainly.
Paperwork's all done.
I even got my back pay
in my pocket.
Back, back home
in Virginia...
well...
I just don't rightly know
how I'm gonna explain
all this.
You see, I've...
I've seen...
You're a hell
of a fine soldier,
Shifty.
There's nothing more
to explain.
Thank you, sir.
Winters:
Two days later,
Shifty Powers
was on a truck
headed for the rear
and a boat home.
Unfortunately the truck
was hit head-on
by a drunken corporal
from another regiment.
Shifty had
a broken pelvis,
a broken arm,
and a bad concussion.
He survived,
but had to spend
the next few months
in a series
of hospitals.
I wish I could say
that he was our only casualty
in Austria.
I've made up
my mind, Nix.
I got the points,
I'm going back to Kitty.
Harry, do you really think
that Kitty hasn't run off
with some 4-F by now?
(laughs)
Son of a bitch.
That's not even funny.
Harry, ignore him.
How am I supposed
to tell her
I had the chance
to come home to her
finally,
but decided not to,
so I could go jump
on Tokyo?
All right,
so don't tell her.
Besides, she's waited for you
for three years, right?
We'll be to Tokyo and back
in two years, three tops.
It'll probably be over
before you even get there.
You know, the reality
is you're gonna sit here
in Austria
for six months
waiting to go
and I'm gonna be back
in Wilkes-Barre making babies.
You didn't
tell him?
No, I couldn't get
him to shut up.
What? Tell me what?
Guts and Glory here
applied for a transfer.
What?
13th Airborne are heading out
for the Pacific right away.
If I'm going,
I wanna get it over with.
Are you in
on this too?
I can't let him
go by himself.
He doesn't know
where it is.
You're leaving
the men?
They don't need me
anymore.
Wounded in Normandy?
Yes, sir.
In the leg.
It was a minor
flesh wound.
Company "E"
lost 24 men killed there.
Yes, sir.
17 of those were in
my company commander's plane.
It went down
on D-Day.
So you were given command
of the company on D-Day?
That's right.
(bullets whizzing)
Fall back
to your original positions!
Everyone else maintain
your pace of fire!
In Holland...
they bumped you
to battalion XO.
Yes, sir.
Bastards took
your company away.
(phone ringing)
(firing)
(ringing)
I fired
my last shots there.
For the whole damn war?
Yes, sir.
You got through Bastogne
without having to fire
your weapon?
That is correct, sir.
And you were on the line
the whole time?
Yes, sir.
Can't imagine a tougher
test for a leader,
having to sit through
a siege like that
under those
conditions.
We got through it.
Find some cover!
Find a foxhole!
Come on,
take cover!
Take cover!
Come on,
find some cover!
So why do you
want a transfer?
Sorry, sir?
I said, why do you want
to leave your men?
Oh, it's not that, sir.
It's just that if the war
was still on in the Pacific
and I could do some
good over there...
Looking to have
your own division someday?
No, sir.
Not going to make
a career of the army?
No.
Ye-- I--
Well, I don't know, sir.
Because if you think
you need more combat
experience
to get stars
on your helmet,
let me tell you
something, son--
you've done enough.
Thank you, sir.
That's--
that's not my objective.
Major,
I took this meeting
out of respect
for your achievements,
and for the 101st.
If they do go to
the Pacific eventually,
you should be running
one of the battalions.
Thank you, sir.
And frankly, I think
your men have earned
the right
to keep you around.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Winters:
So, I would stay in Austria
for the time being,
waiting for orders,
and trying to
watch over soldiers
who had no enemy
to fight.
Lieb, I fucking
hate this.
Oh, Jesus Christ,
they fingered him.
He was in
the fucking room, Web.
One of those Polacks
who was at the slave camps
said this is where
the guy lives, right here.
Which camp?
Whatever camp.
I'm under direct orders
and I'm happy to follow it.
Is this a personal
thing, Joe?
What?
Is this personal
to you?
No, it's
a goddamn order.
Does Major Winters
know about this?
Doesn't matter here.
Oh, the fuck
it doesn't.
What if this guy's
just a soldier?
What if he's an officer
with no ties to the SS?
What if he's innocent?
You know what?
What if he's
a fucking Nazi commandant
of a fucking slave camp?
Which one?
Which camp?
You don't have any proof.
Were you at Landsberg?
You know I was.
You think he's a soldier
like you and me?
A fucking innocent
German officer?
Where the hell have you been
for the past three years?
Wer sind sie?
Was machen sie hier?
What?
Ich habe garnichts.
Shut up.
Was machen sie?
Ruhe.
Sie sind
der Kommandant.
Gehen sie heraus.
Sie sind
der Kommandant.
Welcher Kommandant?
Vom Arbeitslager.
Ich weiss von keinem
Arbeitslager.
Sie haben
die falsche Person.
No?
Come here,
old man.
Nein, nein.
Don't fucking
lie to me.
Sie tauschen sich.
See what you did
to my fucking people?
Nein. Nein!
(yelling continues)
He's guilty.
Liebgott says so.
He probably is.
(gunshot)
(man shouts)
(clicking)
Goddamn son of a bitch.
Shoot him.
Shoot him!
No.
(gunshot)
Officers don't run.
The war's over,
anybody would run.
Winters:
Summer in this alpine
paradise
should have been
a welcome relief,
especially now that we were
at peace with the Germans.
Everyone just wanted
to go home.
France.
France was the best.
Really?
Yeah, five years.
I think
I was in every country,
but France was the best.
Italy would be
second for me.
Russia
is not desirable.
Ukraine-- it was okay.
So, er,
when d'you get out?
The unit is
discharged.
We leave when my captain
gets transferred.
It is the end
of my second war.
Jesus.
I'm going home now
to Mannheim.
I'll take this one.
Passkarte, bitte.
Okay.
Hey, Webster!
My relief.
Don't salute the Germans.
Aw, come on.
I sort of
get a kick out of it.
Anyway, I got me
a new enemy-- the Japs.
75 points.
How about you?
I mean, you're
a Toccoa guy, right?
How many you got?
Wouldn't you
like to know?
Discharged, huh?
Go ahead, take off,
it's my turn.
Okay, see you back
at the farm.
81.
Huh?
I have 81 points.
(laughing)
well, that's just
not good enough.
(honking)
See about getting
you a ride.
Hey!
Where are they going?
Munich.
Munchen, Munich.
Wanna go to Munich?
Um, mochten sie nach
Munchen gehen?
Ja, bitte.
(speaking softly)
(both yelling in German)
Get in.
Too bad.
Turn the wheel!
(horn honking)
Oh, Jesus.
It's Private Janovec.
He was dead when
they brought him in.
75 points.
What?
He was
10 points short.
Winters:
The enemy had surrendered,
but somehow men
were still dying.
Young men
who wanted to be home
with their families by now,
who'd served with distinction
since before Normandy
were stuck here
because they didn't
have the points.
What they did have
plenty of were weapons,
alcohol,
and too much time
on their hands.
Man:
When all of a sudden,
from out of nowhere,
a guy jumps out
of the hedgerow,
onto this guy's chest,
shoves a trench knife
up against his throat
and screams,
"Whose side are you on?"
I don't get it.
It's D-Day.
It's 2nd Platoon's
own Bill Guarnere.
Ol' Gonorrhea
himself.
Just landed in Normandy
and wound up like
I don't know what.
"Whose side are you on?"
What a fucking character.
What happened
to him?
Got his leg blown off
in Bastogne.
Wait here.
Are you okay, Mac,
d'you need some help?
(laughing)
They wouldn't give me
any gas.
Krauts.
I tried to explain.
This fucking limey
wouldn't listen.
I think he was a major.
Look, private,
we've got a problem here.
Do you have
any gas?
Why don't you
give me your weapon?
Well, I guess
I'll just use his jeep.
I don't think
he's gonna be needing it.
Hold on a second there,
all right?
(fires)
Jesus. Sarge!
Sergeant Grant!
Sarge!
Jesus.
What?
He's not gonna
make it.
You can't
operate on him?
Not me.
You'd need
a brain surgeon.
And even if you had one,
I don't think there's
any hope.
You find the shooter,
I want him alive.
Come on, help me.
What are you doing?
We're gonna go
find a brain surgeon.
Get the door.
Hey, Lieb.
He wants a noncom
guarding each roadblock
and at least two men watching
every road out of town.
Bull, Malark,
you each take a squad
and one of these witnesses
on a house-to-house search.
Can we shoot
this bastard on sight?
Try and take
him alive.
Where's Grant now?
They took him
to a kraut hospital
to see if they could
drum up any good doctors.
(knocking)
(dog barking)
Open up.
Come with me.
Why?
Get in the jeep.
Where are we going?
To the hospital,
get in.
If you're going
to shoot me, shoot me.
If you're not,
put the gun away.
Get in the jeep, now.
What happened
to him?
He was shot
in the head.
Half hour ago.
Come on.
If you want him to live,
you'll help me.
First by putting
that away.
Let's go.
Let me drive.
We'll get there faster.
(punching, grunting)
Jesus.
Again, what a hand.
(yelling, grunting
continue)
I don't know who's taking
a bigger beating, me or him.
Wanna play
a different game?
No.
Same game, just shuffle
'em up good, huh?
You all right?
Yeah, I'm all right.
You wanna go in there
and join in?
I should go in there
and stop this.
Floyd, let's just
play cards, all right?
Where is he?
How's Grant?
Is he okay?
Where is he?
(coughing)
This him?
That's him.
Replacement,
"I" company.
Where's the weapon?
What weapon?
When you talk to an officer,
you say "sir."
(gun cocking)
Have the MPs take care
of this piece of shit.
Grant's dead?
No.
Kraut surgeon
says he's gonna make it.
Hey, tough guy,
on your feet.
Come on, move,
move it.
I'm guessing they were
Hitler's photo albums, sir.
Sure had a lot of
pictures of him in it.
So, you looked at 'em,
but you didn't take 'em?
That's right, sir.
I don't believe you.
I'll be watching you.
You're dismissed.
You'd better not
be lying to me.
What?
Sir, if it's not gonna
put you in too much of a bind,
I'd like to resign
as company 1st sergeant.
If I had my choice,
I miss being back
amongst the men.
I'd be happy to go
to staff sergeant,
whichever platoon
you wanna put me in.
Well, I guess you've earned
your right to demote yourself.
Thank you, sir.
You wanna take over
Sergeant Grant's platoon?
That would
do fine, sir.
All right then,
report to Lieutenant Peacock.
Let me know
if he gives you any trouble.
Oh, sir, you make
your decision yet?
Yeah, I did.
So, what else
is on your mind?
I know "Easy Company's"
gonna need
a commanding officer
post-war.
Somebody to
hold their hand,
keep them from
killing each other.
It better
be somebody who knows
what they're doing.
Yep, I couldn't
agree more.
I mean, it's absolutely
irresponsible to leave them
in the hands of
the wrong person.
They're too much
of a valuable resource
to the military.
So you've decided
to stay in the army?
Yes, I'm gonna
stay with the men.
Well, I'm glad
to hear it.
Winters:
So some of us would
stay by choice,
but others were stuck here
unless we could find excuses
to send them away.
So it's
an airborne exhibition.
They have one of
every Allied combat plane
they've used in the war.
Uh-huh.
I mean, yes, sir.
You'll be like
a technical adviser
to make sure they get
everything right.
I understand, sir.
I'm sorry it's not
a more hospitable location.
No, sir.
Paris is just fine.
You know, if you need--
if you need me to go,
someone has to be there.
Yeah, we do,
we absolutely do.
And your driver
will drop you off
at a hotel of your choice.
And I don't think
we'll see you back here
any time soon.
I won't let
you down, sir.
Carwood, yes.
Um...
I wanted to say-- ahem,
as you probably know,
the army,
when they give a man
a battlefield commission,
make him an officer,
they usually don't let him
stay with the same company.
Yes, sir, I figured
this was coming.
Yeah, they're afraid
the men won't show him
the proper degree
of respect as they would
another officer.
It's--
it's a good theory, sir.
It's an idiotic theory,
especially in your case.
Nevertheless,
they've given me the choice
as to where
to re-assign you,
and I thought
battalion headquarters
might be a good place.
I can think of
few better, sir.
Good. Good.
Right now,
down at the airfield,
there is a German general
who is a little PO'd
about having to surrender
to Private Babe Heffron
from South Philly.
Thinks it's
beneath his stature.
Understandable, sir.
Yeah.
I thought
2nd Lieutenant Carwood Lipton
from West Virginia
could soothe
his ruffled feathers.
No problem, sir.
Major, is this the type of job
I can expect from now on?
Yeah. Yeah.
When we're not sunning
ourselves by the lake.
Lieutenant.
With your permission,
I would like to address
my men briefly.
That'll be fine,
general.
Captain Sobel.
Major Winters.
We salute the rank,
not the man.
Manner,
es war ein langer Krieg.
Es war ein harter Krieg.
Liebgott?
"Men, it's been a long war.
It's been a tough war."
Ihr habt tapfer und stolz fur
euer Vaterland gekampft.
"You have fought bravely,
"proudly, for your country."
Ihr seid
eine besondere Gruppe...
"You are a special group..."
...die ineinander einen
zusammenhalt gefunden Habt...
"...who have found
in one another a bond..."
...wie ersich nur
im kampf entwickeln Kann.
"...that exists
only in combat."
Unter Kameraden...
"Among brothers..."
Die Fuchshohlen
geteilkt haben...
"...of shared foxholes."
Die sich in
schrecklichen Momenten
gegenseitig
geschutzt haben.
"Held each other
in dire moments."
Die den Tod
zusammen gesehen haheb
und gemeinsam
gelitten haben.
"Who've seen death
and suffered together."
Ich bin stolz
mit euch gedient
zu haben.
"I am proud to have served
with each and every one
of you."
Sie aller verdienen
am langsten gluckliches
Leben und Frieden.
"You deserve long
and happy lives of peace."
Towel, towel, towel,
towel, towel.
Thanks.
Take a look
at these two kids.
What the hell
happened to them?
New Jersey, huh?
Yeah.
Think about it.
Yeah, I am.
You awake yet?
Awake?
Time to
go to bed.
(cheering)
Come on,
we got one down.
Come on, Pee Wee,
let's get Webster.
Man:
Come on, Pee Wee!
Let's get him...
Winters:
Buck Compton came back
to see the company,
to let us know
that he was all right.
He became a prosecutor
in Los Angeles.
He convicted Sirhan Sirhan
in the murder of
Robert Kennedy,
and was later
appointed to the California
Court of Appeals.
David Webster
became a writer for
The Saturday Evening Post
and Wall Street Journal
and later
wrote a book about sharks.
In 1961, he went out
on the ocean alone
and was never
seen again.
Man:
Go, go, go!
Johnny Martin would return
to his job at the railroad
and then start
his own construction company.
He splits his time
between Arizona and a place
in Montana.
George Luz became a handyman
in Providence, Rhode Island.
As a testament
to his character,
1600 people attended
his funeral in 1998.
Doc Roe
died in Louisiana
in 1998.
He'd been
a construction contractor.
Frank Perconte
returned to Chicago
and worked a postal route
as a mailman.
Joe Liebgott
returned to San Francisco
and drove his cab.
Bull Randleman was one of
the best soldiers I ever had.
He went into the earth-moving
business in Arkansas.
He's still there.
Alton More
returned to Wyoming
with a unique souvenir--
Hitler's personal
photo albums.
He was killed
in a car accident in 1958.
Floyd Talbert,
we all lost touch with
in civilian life,
until he showed up
a reunion just before
his death in 1981.
How we lived our lives
after the war
was as varied
as each man.
Carwood Lipton became
a glass-making executive
in charge of factories
all over the world.
He has a nice life
in North Carolina.
Harry Welsh--
he married Kitty Grogan,
became an administrator
for the Wilkes-Barre
Pennsylvania school system.
Ronald Speirs
stayed in the army,
served in Korea,
and in 1958,
returned to Germany
as governor of Spandau Prison.
He retired
a lieutenant colonel.
Get 'em round.
"Easy Company,"
school circle!
For "Easy Company",
it was D-Day plus 434.
A fast man would've
had it, Perco.
Listen up,
got some news.
This morning,
President Truman
received the unconditional
surrender from the Japanese.
War's over.
Regardless of points,
medals, or wounds,
each man in the 101st Airborne
would be going home.
Each of us
would be forever connected
by our shared experience.
And each would have
to rejoin the world
as best he could.
(cheering)
Lewis Nixon
had some tough times
after the war.
He was divorced
a couple of times,
then in 1956, he married
a woman named Grace
and everything
came together for him.
He spent the rest
of his life with her,
traveling the world.
My friend Lew
died in 1995.
I took up his job offer
and was a personnel manager
at the Nixon Nitration Works
until I was called back
into service in 1950
to train officers and rangers.
But I chose
not to go to Korea.
I'd had enough of war.
I stayed around
Hershey, Pennsylvania,
finally finding
a little farm,
a little peaceful
corner of the world,
where I still live today.
And there is not
a day that goes by
that I do not think
of the men I served with
who never got to enjoy
the world without war.
It's a very
unusual feeling.
unusual happening,
and it's a very
unusual bonding.
We knew that we could
depend on each other.
And so, we were
a close-knit group.
Just brave, so brave
it was unbelievable.
And I don't know anybody
that I admire more than
Bill Guarnere
and Joe Toye.
And they were
very, very special.
I'm just one part of
the big war, that's all.
One little part.
And I'm proud
to be a part of it.
Sometimes it
makes me cry.
The real men,
the real heroes
are the fellas
that are still buried
over there
and those that came home
to be buried.
It seemed like you figured,
you thought that you could do
just about anything.
And after the war was over
and you came back out,
well, you lost a lot of that,
or at least I did.
I lost all
that confidence.
We was hoping to stay alive,
that's all, you know.
Henry the Fifth
was talking to his men.
He said, "From this day
to the ending of the world,
"we in it shall
be remembered.
"We lucky few,
we band of brothers.
"For he who today
sheds his blood with me
"shall be my brother."
Do you remember...
the letter that
Mike Ranney wrote me?
You do? Do you remember
how he ended it?
"I cherish...
"the memories of a question
"my grandson asked me
the other day,
"when he said,
"'Grandpa, were you
a hero in the war?'
"Grandpa said, 'No...
"but I served
in a company of heroes.'"
♪ ♪